A system dynamics-based interactive learning environment for online formative (self-)assessment of wanna-be entrepreneurs' performance management capabilities — Background: Many scholars emphasize the way in which sustained organizational development requires a shift in focus from the individual traits of the entrepreneur to the building of an organization that utilizes the collective contributions of its employees. To achieve this, entrepreneurs must adopt the role of a facilitator and empower their employees to perform at their best. There are numerous factors that influence one's decision to pursue a career in entrepreneurship, such as the beliefs and desires that individuals possess. Entrepreneurs possess diverse self-perceptions, and this plays a crucial role in their motivation to start a new business. Studies on entrepreneurial self-perception examine the elements, such as personal identity and capabilities-particularly the ability to effectively manage company drivers-which ultimately shape one's decision to embark on a new venture. Launching a startup is not merely an act; rather, it represents a substantial reflection of an individual's self-concept and identity. Consequently, an individual's perceived social identity has a substantial influence on their choice to pursue entrepreneurship, as they view the venture as an extension of themselves. Methods: An online interactive learning environment (ILE) designed to assess the performance management capabilities of wanna-be entrepreneurs, in accordance with the formative assessment paradigm, has been developed. Results: The procedures for carrying out the formative (self-) assessment of wanna-be entrepreneurs' performance management capabilities will be detailed. Two concrete assessment cases, with the aim of making clearer what kind of outcomes the ILE can generate, will be presented. Conclusions: The ILE could contribute in the encouragement of wanna-be entrepreneurs to participate in entrepreneurship educational programs.